V1.0.0 RC (#182)
OWASP/maswe: weaknesses/MASVS-RESILIENCE/MASWE-0060.md

Author: Sergio: DONE

---
title: Debugger Detection Not Implemented
id: MASWE-0060
alias: debugger-detection

> requirement: "The app terminates if a debugger is detected."

Reviewer: Too strict and not matching mitigations below.
```suggestion
requirement: "The app detects debugger attachment at runtime and responds to protect sensitive operations."
```

platform: [android, ios]
profiles: [R]
threat: MAS-THREAT-0060
attacks: [MAS-ATTACK-0002]
mappings:
  masvs-v1: [MSTG-RESILIENCE-2]
  masvs-v2: [MASVS-RESILIENCE-4]
  cwe: [693]
  maswe-beta: [MASWE-0101]

> status: new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  maswe-beta: [MASWE-0101]
refs:
- https://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/Debug#isDebuggerConnected()
- https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/proc_pid_status.5.html
- https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/System/Conceptual/ManPages_iPhoneOS/man2/ptrace.2.html
- https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/System/Conceptual/ManPages_iPhoneOS/man3/sysctl.3.html
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ih6gWZDuNME
status: new
```

---

## Overview

This weakness occurs when an app does not detect the presence of a debugger attached to it at runtime.

> A debugger lets an attacker inspect memory, set breakpoints, and alter control flow to bypass client-side controls, even when the release build is not flagged as debuggable (see @MASWE-0050 for that case). Platforms offer detection primitives such as `Debug.isDebuggerConnected()` and the `TracerPid` field in `/proc/self/status` on Android, or `sysctl`- and `ptrace`-based checks on iOS. Without such checks and a response, a debugger can be attached and used against the app unnoticed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A debugger lets an attacker inspect memory, set breakpoints, and alter control flow to bypass client-side controls, even when the release build is not flagged as debuggable (see @MASWE-0050 for that case). Platforms offer detection primitives such as `Debug.isDebuggerConnected()` (Java debugging) and the `TracerPid` field in `/proc/self/status` on Android (Native debugging), or `sysctl`- and `ptrace`-based checks on iOS. Without such checks and a response, a debugger can be attached and used against the app unnoticed.
```

## Modes of Introduction

- **No Debugger Checks**: Shipping without any runtime verification that a debugger is attached to the process.

> - **One-Time or Single-Point Checks**: Checking only at startup or in a single location, so attackers can attach later or patch out the one check.

Reviewer: No consequences in modes of introduction. Rephrase.

```suggestion
- **One-Time or Single-Point Checks**: Checking only at startup or in a single code path instead of around sensitive operations and throughout runtime.
```
